README.md, before:

# Arduino MIDI clock with tap tempo

### Forker's Note
*A fork that has been modified to use SoftwareSerial.h, allowing it to run on Arduino Uno or Nano. MIDI In/Out are
on pins 6 and 7, respectively. This modification is not yet hardware tested but does compile. Will update when I get home next week.*

### Original Readme
As seen on LittleBits:
https://classroom.littlebits.com/inventions/littlebits-arduino-midi-master-clock-with-tap-tempo

You can also do this with a regular Arduino, but you'll have some extra work soldering the button(s)/dimmer

## How to make a Arduino MIDI connector
See the excellent tutorial at this link:
http://www.instructables.com/id/Send-and-Receive-MIDI-with-Arduino/step3/Send-MIDI-Messages-with-Arduino-Hardware/ .

Or check the electrical spec here:
https://www.midi.org/articles/midi-electrical-specifications

## Connections

### For MIDI out

- Connect MIDI ground to Arduino ground
- Connect MIDI 5V to Arduino 5V **with a 220 Ohm resistor in between**
- Connect MIDI signal line to Arduino serial input pin (D1)

### For tap in

Connect a button to D2

## Usage

- Upon startup, Arduino will start sending 100 BPM MIDI clock signal (or last saved BPM value if available).
- Tap the tempo (minimum 3 times)
- After the last tap, clock tempo will be updated and MIDI clock signal will send new BPM

### Features:
- **MIDI clock output** on pin D1 TX
- **Tap tempo** input
- **Dimmer input** when a dimmer is connected to A0 to set the tempo by twisting the knob!
- Tempo blinking **LED** on pin 5
- Sync signal on pin 9 (for example to sync with Korg Monotribe...)
- **MIDI real-time start/stop** is sent when button press is detected on A1 port
- **BPM storage in EEPROM** and restores it on power up
- **MIDI forwarding** if a MIDI input is present on pin D0 RX
- Output of the BPM to a TM1637 **LED display**

# Branches

- master: Code for the Arduino Leonardo (or LittleBits Arduino)
- arduino-uno: Code for Arduino Uno and compatible devices (D0/D1 RX/TX pins are used for MIDI in/out, so no debug console!)
- olimex-midi-shield: Based on the arduino-uno branch, but with some tweaks to make the code work better with the Olimex MIDI shield (https://www.olimex.com/Products/Duino/Shields/SHIELD-MIDI/open-source-hardware) (Work in progress!)

# Enjoy! :)

Commit message:

Update forkers note in README.md
Tweaked for clarity in regard to reasons for the fork and better describing the added functionality.

README.md, after:

# Arduino MIDI clock with tap tempo

### Forker's Note
*A fork that has been modified to use SoftwareSerial.h, allowing it to run on Arduino Uno or Nano and still 
allowing a debug console. MIDI In/Out are on Serial1, attached to pins 6 and 7, respectively. This modification 
is not yet hardware tested but does compile without error, so have at iit. I'm also contemplating adding a 
rotary encoder in parallel with tap tempo for specific tempo setting. I'm also considering upgrading the display 
to an old LCD128x64 display I have left over from a dead Tronxy 3D printer. This has an SD card slot that could be 
used as a MIDI logger/recorder by looping the MIDI out from the last device back to the clock's input. This last 
feature may just be scope creep, so no promises there.*

### Original Readme
As seen on LittleBits:
https://classroom.littlebits.com/inventions/littlebits-arduino-midi-master-clock-with-tap-tempo

You can also do this with a regular Arduino, but you'll have some extra work soldering the button(s)/dimmer

## How to make a Arduino MIDI connector
See the excellent tutorial at this link:
http://www.instructables.com/id/Send-and-Receive-MIDI-with-Arduino/step3/Send-MIDI-Messages-with-Arduino-Hardware/ .

Or check the electrical spec here:
https://www.midi.org/articles/midi-electrical-specifications

## Connections

### For MIDI out

- Connect MIDI ground to Arduino ground
- Connect MIDI 5V to Arduino 5V **with a 220 Ohm resistor in between**
- Connect MIDI signal line to Arduino serial input pin (D1)

### For tap in

Connect a button to D2

## Usage

- Upon startup, Arduino will start sending 100 BPM MIDI clock signal (or last saved BPM value if available).
- Tap the tempo (minimum 3 times)
- After the last tap, clock tempo will be updated and MIDI clock signal will send new BPM

### Features:
- **MIDI clock output** on pin D1 TX
- **Tap tempo** input
- **Dimmer input** when a dimmer is connected to A0 to set the tempo by twisting the knob!
- Tempo blinking **LED** on pin 5
- Sync signal on pin 9 (for example to sync with Korg Monotribe...)
- **MIDI real-time start/stop** is sent when button press is detected on A1 port
- **BPM storage in EEPROM** and restores it on power up
- **MIDI forwarding** if a MIDI input is present on pin D0 RX
- Output of the BPM to a TM1637 **LED display**

# Branches

- master: Code for the Arduino Leonardo (or LittleBits Arduino)
- arduino-uno: Code for Arduino Uno and compatible devices (D0/D1 RX/TX pins are used for MIDI in/out, so no debug console!)
- olimex-midi-shield: Based on the arduino-uno branch, but with some tweaks to make the code work better with the Olimex MIDI shield (https://www.olimex.com/Products/Duino/Shields/SHIELD-MIDI/open-source-hardware) (Work in progress!)

# Enjoy! :)
